rm:linux: Add how to build with the clang toolchain (#462)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/linux/toolchain.rst

.. _ref-toolchain:

Toolchain
=========

The toolchain can be configured globaly or per recipe, since version v89
LmP uses by default ``clang`` as the compiler and ``llvm`` as the runtime.

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN ?= "clang"
  RUNTIME = "llvm"

Exists however some issues when using the ``clang`` and ``llvm`` as default,
because some recipes are refusing to be build with this configuration. To adresss this issues
is recomendend to add a new file where we will add the tweeks needed to build
sucessfully. In the public LmP we use the ``meta-lmp/meta-lmp-base/conf/distro/include/non-clangable.inc``
for that propuse.

Adding the same on the ``meta-subscriber-overrides`` can be a solution
where we collect all the ``clang`` tweeks needed. This configuration

> can be added in ``meta-subscriber-overrides/conf/layer.conf`` or somewere in another global

Reviewer: We do use 'conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc' for global settings that should be factory specific, maybe use that instead (needs testing due include ordering).

Author: `conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc` looks better maybe the non-clangable.inc can be placed on the same folder `conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc`

configurations file.

.. prompt:: text

  require meta-subscriber-overrides/conf/non-clangable.inc

Changing the toolchain
----------------------

To change the default values disabling the ``clang`` compiler globaly and use the ``gcc``

> we need to change the ``TOOLCHAIN`` value in ``meta-subscriber-overrides/conf/layer.conf``

Author: it can be better to place everything clang related inside the `non-clangable.inc` and it's easier to find ?

.. _ref-toolchain:

Toolchain
=========

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps start by saying that there are 2 available toolchains: GCC and clang.

The toolchain can be configured globaly or per recipe, since version v89
LmP uses by default ``clang`` as the compiler and ``llvm`` as the runtime.

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN ?= "clang"
  RUNTIME = "llvm"

Exists however some issues when using the ``clang`` and ``llvm`` as default,
because some recipes are refusing to be build with this configuration. To adresss this issues
is recomendend to add a new file where we will add the tweeks needed to build
sucessfully. In the public LmP layer ``meta-lmp`` we use the
``meta-lmp-base/conf/distro/include/non-clangable.inc``
for that propuse.

Adding the same on the factory layer ``meta-subscriber-overrides`` can be a solution
where we will collect all the ``clang`` tweeks needed. This configuration
can be added in ``conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc``

> or somewere in another global configurations file.

Reviewer 2: This piece is confusing to me. I mean, it's unclear whether I should create both files or choose one. And in case I must choose, how do I choose?

I would rephrase it by starting by g pointing to the `meta-lmp-base/conf/distro/include/non-clangable.inc` file. Some thing as: "There is a file in LmP with some changes, but it's recommended to create another one <here>". Or only mention the `conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc` and nothing more.

The user with experience will know how to organize his source code the way he wants. We can point the non-experienced user to how to do it.

Author: I tried to rewrite this in another way

.. prompt:: text

  require conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc

> So we will use the factory file ``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``

Reviewer 2: Another way to say all the possible files we can change is by making a bullet list. But then I would be wondering how to choose from the list.

to customize everything clang related.

Changing the toolchain
----------------------

To change the default values disabling the ``clang`` compiler globaly and use the ``gcc``
we need to change the ``TOOLCHAIN`` value.

.. prompt:: text

>   TOOLCHAIN = "gcc"

Reviewer 2: where?

> Changing the compiler per recipe is also possible and it can be done using a bbappend or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changing the compiler per recipe is also possible, and it can be done using a `.bbappend` or
```

> with ``TOOLCHAIN = "gcc"`` or in the global factory ``non-clangable.inc``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with ``TOOLCHAIN = "gcc"`` or in the factory, changing the file ``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``, from ``meta-subscriber-overrides``
```

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN:pn-<recipe> = "gcc"

Costumize the default toolchain
-------------------------------

When using the clang toolchain we have the ``toolchain-clang`` override that can be used
to do the costumization and this will only take effect when clang is in use.

> All of this costumizations can be placed on the factory ``non-clangable.inc``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of these customizations can be placed in the factory by changing the file ``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``, from ``meta-subscriber-overrides``.
```

.. prompt:: text

  STRIP:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "${HOST_PREFIX}strip"
  OBJCOPY:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "${HOST_PREFIX}objcopy"
  COMPILER_RT:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "-rtlib=libgcc --unwindlib=libgcc"

> Some more infiornation can be found on https://github.com/kraj/meta-clang

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some more information can be found on https://github.com/kraj/meta-clang
```

.. _ref-toolchain:

Toolchain
=========

The default toolchain used in the openembedded-core layer is the ``gcc`` but this can also be configured.
The meta-clang layer provides the ``clang`` toolchain that can be configured globaly or per recipe.
Since version **v89** LmP uses by default ``clang`` as the compiler and ``llvm`` as the runtime.

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN ?= "clang"
  RUNTIME = "llvm"

Exists however, some issues when using the ``clang`` and ``llvm`` as default,
because some recipes are not prepared to be built with this configuration.
To address these issues is recomendend to add a new file where these 
tweeks will be made to build sucessfully.

In the public LmP layer ``meta-lmp`` we use the
``meta-lmp-base/conf/distro/include/non-clangable.inc``
for that propuse.
Adding another ``non-clangable.inc`` on the factory layer ``meta-subscriber-overrides``
can be a solution, where we will collect all the ``clang`` tweeks needed.

> This configuration can be added in the factory global configurations file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can be added in the factory global configuration file
```

> ``conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``conf/machine/include/lmp-factory-custom.inc``:
```

.. prompt:: text

  require conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc

> So we will use the factory file ``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**So we will use the factory file ``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``**
```

to customize everything ``clang`` related.

> Changing the toolchain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Changing the Toolchain
```

----------------------

> To change the default values disabling the ``clang`` compiler globaly and use the ``gcc``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To change the default values disabling ``clang`` globally so as to use  ``gcc``,
```

we need to change the ``TOOLCHAIN`` value.

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN = "gcc"

> Changing the compiler per recipe is also possible and to do that we add the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Changing the compiler per recipe is also possible. To do that we add the
```

line above in a `.bbappend` for the recipe.
This can also be done in the factory, changing the file
``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``, from ``meta-subscriber-overrides``.

.. prompt:: text

  TOOLCHAIN:pn-<recipe> = "gcc"

> Costumize the default toolchain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Customizing the Default Toolchain
```

-------------------------------

When using the clang toolchain we have the ``toolchain-clang`` override that can be used

> to do the costumization and this will only take effect when clang is in use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to do the customization and this will only take effect when clang is in use.
```

All of these customizations can be placed in the factory by changing the file
``conf/machine/include/non-clangable.inc``, from ``meta-subscriber-overrides``.

.. prompt:: text

  STRIP:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "${HOST_PREFIX}strip"
  OBJCOPY:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "${HOST_PREFIX}objcopy"
  COMPILER_RT:pn-<recipe>:toolchain-clang = "-rtlib=libgcc --unwindlib=libgcc"

> Some more information can be found on https://github.com/kraj/meta-clang

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More information can be found via the `meta-clang repository <https://github.com/kraj/meta-clang>`_.
```
